A job map breaks down the steps a customer's taking while trying to get a job done.
A good job map is solution-agnostic.
That is as much as possible,
it should describe what the customer is trying to fulfill,
independent of what they are using or doing to get the job done.
For example, a job map would not contain a step where users click on a button,
because clicking on a button is a specific solution
and doesn't describe the ultimate goal the customer is trying to accomplish,
when clicking on that button.
Instead, a step in the job map might be
checking whether the price of a product fits their budget.
Job maps offer a way to outline
the ideal process flow for the needs each customer is trying to fulfill.
By creating a job map,
product managers often find ideas and
areas for optimization and improvement of a product,
as well as opportunities for new products or features that may
address the customer's job to be done in a more efficient manner.
A job map contains eight steps,
each step in the process may reveal opportunities to
innovate and improve the solution currently offered by a product.
The first step is definition.
The define step is where the job executor
defines their goals and the resources needed for achieving these goals.
For example, a carpenter building a shelf might realize he needs a shorter piece of wood,
and that one way to accomplish the goal of having a functional shelf,
would be to cut a longer piece of wood.
When reviewing this step in a job map,
product managers can improve their product by making planning simpler for the user.
The second step in the job map is location.
In the locate step,
a job executor gathers everything they need to accomplish a job,
whether physical tools or information.
For example, the carpenter in our shelf building example,
would need to gather the wood to be cut,
a saw, a measuring tape, and safety equipment.
A product manager can innovate in this step by making it
easier for a user to gather everything they need in one place.
The third step in the job map is preparation.
During the prepare step,
a job executor sets up their environment to be ready to do a job.
Think of a data entry worker ensuring
their monitor and keyboard are in the right position,
so that they can type all day without hurting their neck or back.
For example, the carpenter would need to put on safety goggles
and ear protection and measure and mark the wood at the proper length for cutting.
To make improvements in the prepare step,
product managers can reduce the required setup or
provide guidance that allows users to prepare more quickly.
The fourth step in the job map is the confirm step,
confirmation is when a job executor does
a final check to make sure they are ready to do a job.
For example, the carpenter might double-check the link they
measured on the wood fits the length needed for the shelf.
Companies can innovate during the confirmation step by giving
users easy ways to confirm their readiness for a job to be done.
The fifth step in a job map is execution.
Execution is the step where a job executor actually begins to carry out a job.
For example, the carpenter in our example
would begin to cut his piece of wood in this step,
a product manager improves the execution step by removing
blockers and ensuring their product is intuitive to use.
The sixth step in the job map is monitoring.
In the monitoring step,
the job executor checks to see whether
the job they are doing is being successfully carried out.
For example, a carpenter will check as he is cutting
the wood that it is still lined up to the proper measurement,
and that the cut is going straight across the piece of wood.
For this step, product managers can innovate by giving
users more information about progress towards their goal.
The penultimate step in the job map,
step 7 is the modification step.
In the modify step,
a job executor might make changes or adjustments to improve the outcomes of the job.
For example, a carpenter might readjust his saw or wood,
if he noticed in the monitoring step,
that the cut was veering away from straight.
To improve a product in this step,
a product manager should look to reduce the number of
modifications a user has to make when executing a job.
Finally, the eighth step in the job map is conclusion.
In the conclude step,
the job executor finishes executing the job.
For example, the carpenter completes his wood cutting and has a smaller piece of wood,
which is the correct thing to be used for the shelf he desired.
To improve a product in the conclusion step,
product managers can decrease the work needed to conclude a job.